100% Human - 



Lancashire County Council will tell the government that just two new local authorities should be created to replace the 15 that currently exist across Lancashire, as part of a radical shake-up being ordered by ministers.
County Hall’s ruling Reform UK group backed the establishment of standalone North Lancashire and South Lancashire councils at a meeting about the future shape of local government in the county.

The proposal will be submitted next week - once it has been ratified by cabinet members - in response to a request from the government for suggestions about how to streamline Lancashire’s local authority system.

However, Whitehall will also be asked to delay the creation of the new authorities by at least a year - until 2029 at the earliest - amid warnings that the planned timetable would cause "chaos" within key local services.

Lancashire County Council's blueprint for two new authorities, splitting Lancashire along a north-south divide

Lancashire County Council's blueprint for two new authorities, splitting Lancashire along a north-south divide | 

Under the county council’s vision, the new North Lancashire Council would incorporate the existing Preston, Blackpool, Fylde, Wyre, Lancaster and Ribble Valley council areas – and serve more than 722,000 residents.
Meanwhile, on the other side of the Ribble, South Lancashire Council would combine South Ribble, Chorley, West Lancashire, Blackburn with Darwen, Burnley, Hyndburn, Rossendale and Pendle – and provide services to just under 888,000 people.

Lancashire County Council leader Stephen Atkinson is a longstanding opponent to the principle of local government reorganisation (LGR) - the process by which ‘two-tier’ areas like Lancashire see their county and district councils scrapped and replaced with new ‘unitary’ bodies responsible for all local services in their area.
However, he told the meeting that as the government was insisting on the change, a two-council arrangement would best protect the services that mattered to people most.
But opposition politicians blasted what they characterised as “mega” authorities which it was claimed would be too distant from the residents they were intended to serve.

'They're too big - it's hard to get from one end of these super councils to the other'

'They're too big - it's hard to get from one end of these super councils to the other'
Between them, Lancashire’s 15 existing councils - two of which, Blackpool and Blackburn with Darwen, are already unitaries, but will also be subsumed into the new areas - are expected to submit five suggestions for the number and shape of the local authorities that should replace them. The county council is the only one supporting a two-authority split, with options for three, four - in two different configurations - and five set to be put forward by others.

The county council's proposal - which runs to more than 200 pages - claims that two new councils are the strongest model for ensuring the "financial resilience” of the new entities.

It suggests they would generate £391m in savings over the first five years of their operation, with recurring annual savings of £140m thereafter, when compared to the current total cost of local government in Lancashire.

County Cllr Atkinson (Ribble Valley South West) told the meeting that such financial stability would enable the new councils to deliver on residents' priorities. He cited a survey undertaken in September in which almost two thirds of respondents said they would prefer to see the existing councils retained.

“What was clear [from] the people of Lancashire...was that they valued local services- they valued their parks, they valued street cleansing. So what we need in this proposal is one that gives the maximum financial capacity for councils to continue delivering those services,” he said.

The Reform leader - who ran Ribble Valley Borough Council as a Conservative for six years until the start of 2025 - said that if government rules permitted it, his preference would be for a single council across the whole of Lancashire. That option is not currently be allowed, because Lancashire is an area with a combined county authority (CCA) delivering the area’s devolution deal - and so needs at least two councils to exist within its patch.

