Source: https://motorway.co.uk/sell-your-car/manchester
Description: homepage of  a website for a manchester car buyer

Sell my car in Manchester

Another option for selling your car in Manchester is on Motorway. It’s fast, free, andeasy to sell your car with us.

Simply enter the reg and mileage to get an instant, free valuation based on live market data, quickly create a profile for your car with our smart photo app, and more than 7,500 verified dealerships compete to give you the best price possible. In fact,84% of our customers get more money.

Manchester is the largest metropolitan area in the north of England, with more than 2.8 million people calling the city home. It’s a vibrant city that was at the heart of the Industrial Revolution and a cultural centre for music and the arts.

If you’re looking to sell your car in Manchester, you have several options, including selling your vehicle at an auction, at a local dealership, or privately. However, each has its own risks, and you may not get the money you want.

The best way to sell your car is one that is easy and quick, and at Motorway, that’s precisely what we do. We’re committed to making an easy, fair, and transparent way for you to sell your car, how?

Yes. Once the sale is agreed upon, the dealer will collect your car for free at a convenient time. They’ll check your vehicle to make sure it matches your profile. This usually involves a quick look over the bodywork, interior, and general mechanics, and sometimes a short test drive.

Yes. When you sell your car to a verified dealer on Motorway, they’ll collect it for free from your home, work, or another suitable address. It’s important to note that your car must have at least two weeks left on its MOT before it can be sold and collected.

Discover our top tips on how to sell your vehicle and achieve the best price.

Learn the safest ways to accept payment when selling your car.

Everything you need to know about the most common ways to sell your car.

Staying safe online is extremely important when you’re selling your car and sharing personal details online. Learn how to protect yourself here.

Learn about the key areas of your car advert to focus on when selling your car online, from taking great photos to front-loading key spec info.

Petrol cars are still extremely popular, but they’ll soon be a thing of the past. Here’s what you need to consider if you’re driving a petrol car.

*84% of Motorway sellers sold their vehicle for more than the average market price valuation between Jan 2020 and April 2024 (based on two independent market pricing guides). Visitmotorway.co.uk/claims

**On average Motorway sellers got £1,600 more for their vehicle vs part exchange offers (based on a customer survey in August 2024). Visitmotorway.co.uk/claims