Context = Text from a bathroom renovation website


Understanding that each customer has unique needs, our Newcastle-based studio offers a personalised browsing experience. The studio’s environment is designed to inspire and assist customers in visualising potential bathroom setups in their homes. This approach transforms the daunting task of bathroom renovation into an exciting and enjoyable journey, ensuring that every customer leaves with a clear vision for their dream bathroom.

Discover the full range in our showroom

For those customers who are looking for exceptional quality products and a superior service when purchasing their new bathroom; a visit to our award winning showroom in the vibrant city of Newcastle is an absolute must.


Bathroom Renovations in London
Are you planning a bathroom renovation in London or looking to replace your suite? We can advise on and install any style from classic or contemporary. We also take the sting out of renovating by project managing the entire bathroom renovation process. All you need to think about is how great your new space will look.

Initial Quotation
As a leading London bathroom company, we provide a full, transparent no-obligation quote for every project. This covers ideas, needs, budget & timeframe. We price every bathroom installation job carefully whether it is a full bathroom refurbishment or something smaller. We want to make sure we make the most of your budget and avoid surprises for you.

Bathroom Design
If you already have a bathroom design in place, we will review that design carefully. If not, we can help you with our own design services. We can even draw up your ideas and provide CAD drawings should they be needed.

Pre Fit Survey
If we haven’t surveyed your bathroom as part of the quotation, we will come and take accurate measurements and ensure everything fits to a tee before starting work.

Bathroom Design and Installation in London 
Once everything is agreed, Red Box’s bathroom fitters in Chiswick will allocate you a dedicated project manager and share a planning document with you. This is used to keep our dedicated tradespeople on the right track throughout every part of the job.

How to get started? It is easy to arrange a visit to discuss your new bathroom and the installation process. Should you wish, we can start by getting you a detailed initial quote.

Bathroom Installation in London
Sometimes a complete redesign is not necessary. You just need to carry out some improvements to freshen up your home. Red Box are experts in every aspect of renovation. We can also advise you on simple bathroom renovation ideas that will transform your living space.

Whether you’re embarking on a small-scale refurbishment in West London or large full-scale total bathroom refurbishment elsewhere, we are here to make upgrading or redesigning a bathroom as easy and enjoyable as possible. The job does not have to be scary. It can, and should, be an exciting time.

Bathroom Designers in London
Before you instruct Red Box, you may have lots of questions. If you have a design prepared, you may want to know how long your bathroom renovation might take or how much a total bathroom refurbishment might cost. We can accurately advise you on refurbishment prices so there are no unwelcome surprises. You may, of course, not have an idea of what you want. That’s fine too. We are here to make the design and renovation process as simple as possible so contact us with any questions. Visit our Which? Trustpage for customer reviews on complete refurbishments in London and beyond. You can also check out our Instagram account for more inspiration.

New Bathroom London
Take a look at the products and suppliers we recommend for home bathroom renovations. Investing in products from quality suppliers and fitters with experience will ensure the best result across full

Looking for bathroom fitters near me? Check out our interactive project locator for completed projects near your home. Visit our gallery for examples of renovation London schemes.

Bathroom
Bathroom Renovation Costs
Are you wondering how much it costs to renovate a bathroom? Trying to work out complete bathroom refurbishment costs? Are you asking how much to renovate a small bathroom? Wondering if you have the budget for something bigger? Full bathroom refurbishment costs vary widely across the UK starting at £6,000 depending on the choices you make. Are you starting from scratch? Do you need any plumbing replaced? What about the fixtures and fittings? Retiling or repainting may be enough. If this is the case, Red Box decorating services can help.

Bathroom Specialists in London
As with any home project, there is a lot to consider when planning a complete bathroom renovation from whether the existing layout works to decide if you need a bath. Having a shower alone frees up floor space making it ideal for small bathroom renovations where space is tight.

If you need to keep the redesign or remodel cost down, you may be tempted to compromise or use cheap sanitaryware. This can be counterproductive if you want a room that will look great for a long time. The best way to keep the bathroom refurbishment cost on your London property down and still get the look of your dreams is to seek professional advice.

There are typically lots of trades involved in a refurbishment from plumbers and electricians to tilers. Red Box will manage the process for you and ensure different tradespeople come when needed rather than ‘tread on each other’s toes’. This speeds up the process and avoids unnecessary bathroom refurbishment costs. We can also assist in the buying of materials and furniture. Take a look at our recommended suppliers whose entry-level sanitaryware and bathroom furniture will enable you to get quality for less.

See our Fulham case study for an example of full bathroom refurbishment services London clients were delighted with. Visit our case studies page for more examples of Red Box renovation projects. You’ll see why we are one the best bathroom companies London has to offer. 

Frequently Asked Questions
We have done countless bathroom installations in London and have a wealth of knowledge and experience. We have collated some FAQS below.

How much do new bathrooms cost?
According to industry sources, average UK Bathroom installations cost approximately £6,500. However, this can vary on the detail of the work, the scale of the bathroom and the choice of fixtures and fittings. A new full, modern wet room for example could set you back considerably more than something more traditional. The best move is always to ask us for a quote. We can provide you with all the information you need to make a decision. Your dream bathroom is round the corner.